Analytical operations
in big data pipelines.
After this video,
you will be able to list common analytical
operations within big data pipelines and
describe sample applications for
these analytical operations.
In this lesson, we will be
looking at analytical operations.
These are operations used in analytics,
which is the process of
transforming data into insights for
making more informed decisions.
The purpose of analytical operations is to
analyze the data to discover meaningful
trends and patterns, in order to gain
insights into the problem being studied.
The knowledge gained from these insights
ultimately lead to more informed
decisions driven by data.
Here are some common analytical operations
that we will discuss in this lecture.
Classification, clustering,
path analysis and connectivity analysis.
Let's start with classification.
In classification, the goal is to predict
a categorical target from the input data.
A categorical target is one
with discreet values or
categories, instead of continuous values.
For example, this diagram shows
a classification task to determine the
risk associated with a loan application.
The input consists of the loan amount,
applicant information such as income,
age, debts, and a down payment.
From this input data,
the task is to determine whether
the loan application is low risk or
high risk.
There are many classification techniques
or algorithms that can be used for
this problem.
We will discuss a specific one, namely,
decision tree in the next slide.
The decision tree algorithm is
one technique for classification.
With this technique,
decisions to perform the classification
task are modeled as a tree structure.
For the loan risk assessment problem,
a simple decision tree is shown here,
where the loan application is
classified as being either low risk, or
high risk, based on the loan amount.
The applicant's income,
and the applicant's age.
The decision tree algorithm is implemented
in many machine learning tools.
This diagram shows how to specify
decision tree from input data, KNIME.
A graphical user-interface-based
machine learning platform.
Some examples of classification
are the prediction of whether cells from
a tumor are benign or
malignant, categorization of
handwritten digits as being zero,
one, two, etc, up to nine.
And determining whether a credit card
transaction is legitimate or fraudulent,
and classification of a loan application
as being low-risk, medium-risk or
high-risk, as you've seen.
Another common analytical
operation is cluster analysis.
In cluster analysis, or clustering,
the goal is to organize similar
items in to groups of association.
This diagram shows an example of cluster
analysis in which customers are clustered
into groups according to their
preferences of movie genre.
So, customers who like Sci-Fi
movies are grouped together.
Those who like drama movies
are grouped together,
and customers who like horror
movies are grouped together.
With this grouping, new movies,
as well as other products,
such as books, can be offered to
the right type of costumers in order to
generate interest and increase revenue.
A simple and commonly used algorithm for
cluster analysis is k-means.
With k-means,
samples are divided into k clusters.
This clustering is done in order
to minimize the variance or
similarity between samples
within the same cluster
using some similarity
measures such as distance.
In this example, k is equal to three, and
k-means divides the original data shown
on the left into three clusters,
shown as blue, green, and
red on the chart on the right.
The k-means clustering algorithm is
implemented on many machine-learning
platforms.
The code here shows how to read in and
parse input data, and
perform k-means clustering on the data.
Other examples of cluster analysis
are grouping a company’s customer base
into distinct segments for more effective
targeted marketing, finding articles or
webpages with similar topics for
retrieving relevant information.
Identification of areas in the city with
rates of particular types of crimes for
effective management of law
enforcement resources, and
determining different groups of weather
patterns such as rainy, cold or snowy.
Classification and cluster analysis
are considered machine learning and
analytical operations.
There are also analytical
operations from graph analytics,
which is the field of analytics where
the underlying data is structured as, or
can be modeled as the set of graphs.
One analytical operation using
graphs as path analysis,
which analyzes sequences of nodes and
edges in a graph.
A common application of path analysis
is to find routes from one
location to another location.
For example, you might want to find the
shortest path from your home to your work.
This path may be different depending on
conditions such as the day of the week,
time of day, traffic congestion,
weather and etc.
This code shows some operations for
path analysis on neo4j,
which is a graph database system
using a query language called Cypher.
The first operation finds the shortest
path between specific nodes in a graph.
The second operation finds all
the shortest paths in a graph.
Connectivity analysis of graphs
has to do with finding and
tracking groups to determine
interactions between entities.
Entities in highly interacting
groups are more connected
to each other than to entities
of other groups in a graph.
These groups are called communities, and
are interesting to analyze as they
give insights into the degree and
patterns of the interaction between
entities, and also between communities.
Some applications of connectivity analysis
are to extract conversation threads.
For example,
by looking at tweets and retweets.
To find interacting groups, for example,
to determine which users are interacting
with each other users, to find
influencers, for example, to understand
who are the main users leading to
the conversation about a particular topic.
Or, who do people pay attention to?
This information can be used to
identify the fewest number of
people with the greatest influence.
For example, for political campaigns,
or marketing on social media.
This code shows some operations for
connectivity analysis on neo4j using
the query language, Cypher, again.
The first operation finds the degree
of all the nodes in a graph,
and the second creates a histogram
of degrees for all nodes in a graph
to determine how connected a node in
a graph is, we need to look at its degree.
The degree of a node is the number
of edges connected to the node.
A degree histogram shows the distribution
of node degrees in the graph and
is useful in comparing graphs and
identifying types of users, for
example, those who follow, versus those
who are followed in social networks.
To summarize and add to these techniques,
the decision tree algorithm for
classification and k-means algorithm for
cluster analysis that we covered in this
lecture are techniques
from machine learning.
Machine learning is a field of analytics
focused on the study and construction of
computer systems that can learn from data
without being explicitly programmed.
Our course on machine learning in
this specialization will cover these
algorithms in more detail,
along with other algorithms used for
classification and cluster analysis.
As well as algorithms for
other machine learning tasks,
such as regression,
association analysis, and tools for
implementing and
executing machine learning algorithms.
As a summary of the Graph Analytics,
the Path Analytics technique for finding
the shortest path and the connectivity
analysis technique for analyzing communities
that we discussed earlier,
are techniques used in graph analytics.
As explained earlier,
graph analytics is the field of analytics,
where the underlying data is structured or
can be modeled as a set of graphs.
Our graph analytics course in the
specialization will cover these and other
graph techniques, and we'll also cover
tools and platforms for graph analytics.
In summary, analytic operations
are used to discover meaningful
patterns in the data in order to provide
insights into the problem being studied.
We looked at some of the examples of
analytical operations for classification,
cluster analysis, path analysis and
connectivity analysis in this lecture.